>> Bianca Gandolfo: So this is all fine
and dandy until we have a collision.
A collision is what happens when we
run our hash function and we pass
hello into it, and
then we also get a 3, right?
There's no perfect way of
implementing a hashing function for
this to never, ever,
ever happen within realistic constraints.
So we can expect that this will
happen at least once if we
have a certain number of inputs, right?
It's never gonna happen if
you just do one input, right?
But with a certain number of inputs,
you're always gonna have a collision.
So we need to account for that.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And
when we were talking about it earlier,
we were like, you know what?
Maybe,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: We'll just put two
things into our storage, right, like that.
>> off screen: Mm-hm.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Seems reasonable,
right?
>> off screen: How do you get out
the right one?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
and that's the next question.
How do we get out the right one?
What do you think?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Does
anyone have an idea?
>> off screen: Do you have to
store the key as well?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, so to get
around that, we'd have to create a tuple.
>> off screen: That
makes sense.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So.
>> off screen: It's still fast,
cuz you can.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Thingamajig,
comma, true.
Let's put this on a new line so
we can see it.
And then, hola.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Hello comma hola.
And this works, and it will make
it a little bit slower, right?
Because then every time just say,
in the worst case every time we land here,
we have a terrible hashing function and
every time it gives us 3.
And so for n, right,
we have it's all in the index 3 and
then we have to just loop through
either our linked list or
whatever it is that we have in here,
to find the matching one.
So, in the worst case, it's linear.
However, with modern hashing functions and
things like that, we don't have to worry
about this happening in real life.
Does that make sense?
So realistically, if you're using
the right hashing function,
this shouldn't happen, or it's so unlikely
that it's not even worth accounting for.
And then,
the other thing that we do is we resize
our storage once we reach
a certain capacity.
And you'll do that in the exercises.
Once we reach 25%, 50%, 75%, you'll
resize the array and redistribute it.
And also,
that sounds like an expensive operation.
But if you design it well enough
that it happens so infrequently,
that it kinda averages out so
it doesn't affect our constant time.
Does that make sense?
So there's some mathy stuff behind there,
and we can just kind of trust
that if we're doing it the right way,
that it will average itself out and
not be an issue.
>> off screen: So when you resize your
array, then the hashing function
will return a different value.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
>> off screen: And that's why it works.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm, exactly.
So that's why I was saying
our hashing function-
>> off screen: Interesting.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Was gonna take some
extra data, which is, what is the range?
So for this one it's gonna be 0-4,
but maybe we wanna double it.
Usually, when you resize your hashing
table, you double it every time,
and then you redistribute it.
And so you'll rehash everything in
your hash table to a new value,
maybe between 0 and
8 now, or something like
that.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: That make sense?
Cool, that's the only difficult
part about a hash table.
Everything else is straightforward
because it's just an object.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: All right,
so when we go into coding this out we
need to think about collisions, right?
We need to account for them in our code.